┏━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┓
┃ mk-grub-mkstandalone ┃
┗━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━━┛

This is the source code repository for a “make a GRUB 2 standalone
bootable partition” toolkit. Binary releases contain extra files
copied from elsewhere, with provenance information and copyrights
and licences reproduced; they are named “GRUBpak” and are available
from: https://github.com/mirabilos/mk-grub-mkstandalone

“GRUB” is probably a trademark of the GNU project or something.
This toolkit uses it, without claiming it, denoting that it’s
intended to be used with GRUB, and that it’ll install GRUB.

┌────────────┐
│ Motivation │
└────────────┘

Occasionally you’ll want to install a standalone version of GRUB,
for example to use for memdisk or to boot various operating systems
it can start but not using an OS with “native” GRUB support. Say an
old laptop with DOS/WinNT|2k|XP/BSD. They all have native loaders,
however maybe you want to add a grml32-small ISO for rescue purposes
and to install DOS without a floppy disc drive you need memdisk, and
MirBSD’s bootloader is a Multiboot OS kernel that can be kickstarted
from GRUB (passing boot.cfg and the actual bsd kernels as modules).
You’ve got the SuperGRUB2Disc on a USB stick but prefer to lose that
physical hassle. (memdisk here means the tool that can load an image
to RAM and boot that.)

There’s grub-install which is actually supported, but it’s not very
standalone, and you’ll probably enter its rescue shell more than once
due to missing modules…

There’s grub-mkimage and the even less-documented grub-mkstandalone
but their result cannot be installed as upstream explicitly states
nobody has any reason to call grub-bios-setup themselves, and most
grub-mkstandalone users seem to create EFI, ISO or USB stick images
instead, anyway. grub-mkimage can create a core.img file with your
custom modules list, grub-mkstandalone creates one with less modules
built in but with a “memdisk” (GRUB module: like Linux initramfs)
containing all modules (and user-provided extra files if requested).

Somehow grub-extras has a thing that, supposedly, enables booting
these core images from ntldr (NT/2k/XP) but it’s even more undocu‐
mented, and according to a Knoppix forum post, you’d need an extra
file that isn’t available on the internet any more to boot on pre-XP.
Also, what if ntldr breaks… (MirBSD supplies an MBR bootmanager that
offers booting any primary partition.)

┌──────────┐
│ Overview │
└──────────┘

This is where mk-grub-mkstandalone comes in. It’s comprised of:

• a wrapper around grub-mkstandalone, populating the memdisk² with a
  grub.cfg doing some insmod calls (unless you provide your own) and
  adding SYSLINUX’ memdisk so you can use it with floppy/ISO images
  with no extra hassle; enough information to reproduce the stand‐
  alone core image is also included; this is intended to run on your
  “work” Debian system, ideally Debian bullseye (amd64 or i386 will
  work as long as you install grub-pc-bin (for the i386-pc GRUB files)
  and syslinux-common, for memdisk¹ and will create one image file

• glue tying multiple components together that are intended to be run
  on the target system, from a Live GNU/Linux distro (like grml.org);
  you’d copy the core image generated above and these tools to the
  live system, mount a partition (create
